Well this is not the summary of this module to be honest because there is one important thing that we
should really take a look at
and this refers to the sharing actually because in this module, we talked a lot about sharing,
we talked about creating app workspaces and about using an app to publish the information that we created.
This is a great feature but there is one thing that might not be that good depending on what you need,
because whenever you create an app to share your information or your project, you share everything,
this means this app includes the dashboard, the report and the dataset.
Now this can be really amazing and a great feature if you need that
but there might be cases where you only want to share the dashboard and the report
and for this purpose, we don't need an app,
we don't even need an app workspace actually,
the only thing we need is a workspace.
Now when I said we don't need an app workspace, this can of course also be an app workspace and I will
show you how this works in our app workspace.
I just wanted to make sure that you know that this feature is available in each workspace type actually.
Now I talked about the feature,
let's take a look at now how we can share our dashboard and our report only.
So I'm back in our app workspace that we created,
you can see this right here,
so I'm in this workspace right here and up there, we have that yellow button that was named published app,
now we can update the app
but this is always referring to the publishing function
and again, we publish the dashboard, the report and the dataset.
Now if we want to share the dashboard and the report only, then we can simply click right here onto our dashboard,
well and then we go back to this share button I mentioned in one of the earlier videos and if you click
onto the share button right here,
well then you can share the data,
it says share dashboard but the sharing will include the dashboard and the underlying report with other
people.
As you can see, the other person must be a Power BI pro user,
that's the only requirement that you have
but this person can use the trial if you just want to try out that feature.
However, how does this work now?
Well the first thing you have to do is you have to enter an e-mail address
and that's important,
this can be an e-mail address within your organization or also an e-mail address outside your organization.
Now I will show you this now in the an example, so I will use another e-mail address of mine which is
outside the organization,
that's important
but as I said, the same thing is of course possible with an e-mail address inside your organization.
However I will now enter my e-mail address,
now I wrote my e-mail and if I now click right here,
well then we see this warning.
As I said I'm using e-mail address outside my organization
but the good thing is with that warning that this doesn't mean that it doesn't work,
it's just a warning to make sure that you are aware of the fact that you would share content that might
be internal content with one person outside of the organization.
However in this case, this is fine,
so if we scroll down now, then we can define if the other person should be allowed to even share this
dashboard with other people,
well I would say no in this case and then we can define if we want to send an e-mail notification to
the recipient.
I think this is something that we want to do,
so let's tick that, well and that's it actually. We now can simply press onto share down here,
now we can see that the dashboard was shared successfully and if I now quickly change to my emails,
then I see that I now received an invitation to a dashboard.
The important thing here is of course that the account in Power BI and that this account are not the
same accounts,
just to make sure that you are aware of that fact. However I now receive that invitation
and if I click right here then onto this link, well then this is German now,
I'm sorry for that but if you just clicked down here, this should be something like sign-in in English, like
that and then simply select the e-mail address that you invited to Power BI,
then we can see this.
So we only see our dashboard right here, right,
so not a lot to do besides that and we can click into this dashboard of course and then we see our
report
and of course we see our report with the different pages, the relationships, the measures and all the other
beautiful pages that we created.
We can also add some filters right here, like this
but as we can see, even if I click into a report or try to do whatever I want to do, there is no way
to access the entire dataset.
One limitation of course, if I click onto a chart right here for example and then click onto the dots, then
you can of course export the data.
But important,
this only refers to the data that are used in that visual, well
and as the person sees the visual, that data shouldn't be too confidential regarding that
but the rest, so the entire dataset is not included if you use this sharing option in Power BI.
And this is it actually, now that we also know this, we are really done with this module and now is the
time to take a look at what we learned.
So in the next video, we will have our module summary then.